---
title: "[SC] Interview Prep"  
categories: [Job]  
tags:
- [daily, interview]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
date: 2025-11-22 10:00
---


# Identity & Access Management Engineer (Python & SQL) (m/f/x)
Saarbrücker Str. 37, 10405 Berlin, Germany
Full-time
### Company Description
Scalable Capital is a leading digital investment and banking platform with a full banking licence, empowering people across Europe to shape their own finances. Scalable Broker makes it easy and affordable for clients to invest professionally in stocks, ETFs, cryptocurrencies, and derivatives, as well as set up savings plans. Scalable Wealth, the digital wealth management service, offers clients professional investment in ETF portfolios, and is also adopted as a white-label solution by banks and other B2B partners. The company’s offerings are rounded off by attractive interest rates, loans, and private equity. With the European Investor Exchange, Scalable Capital offers an exchange specifically for retail investors. Over one million clients have already entrusted more than €30 billion to the platform.

Founded in 2014, Scalable Capital now employs over 700 people across Munich, Berlin, Vienna, Milan, and London. Together with the founding and management team, including Erik Podzuweit and Florian Prucker, they are working on a new generation of financial services.

Visit our finance blog or check out our Social Media channels to find out what our Expert Teams have to say.

Our Company Values guide us every day in how we work and collaborate. To learn more about them, you can find our values here (English).

### Job Description
- Support with the architecture, design and implementation of the used IAM solution
Connecting application systems, directory services and cloud services to the IAM tool landscape
- Participation in conceptual workshops for the further development of the IAM
Technical contact person within the company for the topic of IAM
Maintenance and expansion of the IAM systems, including corresponding documentation
Qualifications
- Extensive experience developing high-quality software in modern scripting and/or programming languages (Python, Java Script, SQL, C++, etc.) as well as experience with third-party IDP integrations
- Possess a security-first mindset and adeptly navigate complex software architectures
Understand industry-standard security concepts and protocols like SAML, SCIM, OAuth, OIDC, and RBAC
- Familiarity with information security frameworks, standards, and policies as well as keen interest in security topics
- Proficiency with IAM solutions (e.g., Auth0, KeyCloak, Okta, Omada) is a plus
- Exhibit a passion for continuous improvement, technical and operational excellence
- Fluent in English (written and spoken); German proficiency is a plus
### Additional Information
- Be part of one of the fastest-growing and most visible Fintech startups in Europe, creating innovative services that have a substantial impact on the lives of our customers
- Work with an international, diverse, inclusive, and ever-growing team that loves creating the best products for our clients
- Work from our centrally located offices in the heart of Munich or Berlin, nestled in lively neighborhoods filled with vibrant restaurants, cozy cafés, and a wide range of convenient amenities or choose to work remotely within Germany (if eligible for the job)
- Be productive with the latest hardware and tools
- Learn and grow by joining our in-house knowledge sharing or career development sessions and spending your individual Education Budget
- Learn and experience German culture first hand by joining our free German language classes
- International relocation support is provided if required
- Flexible vacation policy and the opportunity to work from abroad
- Benefit from an attractive compensation package and from the company pension scheme
- Monthly contribution of 50% for the ‘Deutschland Jobticket’
- Say goodbye to order commissions and say hello to your complimentary subscription of Scalable Capital's PRIME+ Broker
- Enjoy flexible and discounted sports activities with Urban Sports Club

## Summary of Must-Prepare Topics
IAM & Access Control: RBAC, Authentication/Authorization, Lifecycle Management.

Protocols: SAML, OAuth, OIDC, SCIM.

Technical Skills: Python scripting for automation, SQL for user/audit data, system integration.

Security Mindset: Compliance, auditing, and secure development practices.
